in September fly fishing pilgrims from
around the Rockies congregate on the
banks of the South Platte the Gunnison
rivers for the autumn ritual of playing
and releasing kokanee salmon the
Gunnison River has long been the
favorite destination but the South
Platte River above eleven mile reservoir
is gaining ground at both numbers of
fish and in size scientists tell us that
kokanee do not eat during the spawning
run but for whatever reason they will
take flies such as a Rainbow Warrior
midge a nuclear egg a flash tail hot egg
and a San Juan worm
pilgrims in both locations may hook and
play the salmon but that's where the fun
must end
although valued highly for their food
value all kokanee must be returned to
the water immediately releasing the fish
seems an odd thing to do at first after
all the salmon are on a one-way trip
just like sockeye salmon their saltwater
cousins kokanee die after spawning so
what is the harm in taking a few for the
table the harm is in diminishing returns
every salmon is needed to complete its
mission of supplying eggs and milk for
future generations kokanee fishing at
the confluence in downtown all Maud has
involved into a friendly social event
angers waiting their turn on the
sidelines cheer the players as they
tussle with hearty salmon
you